--- ABSTRACT ---
The long-standing problem of novel view synthesis has many applications, notably in sports broadcasting. Photorealistic novel view synthesis of soccer actions, in particular, is of enormous interest to the broadcast industry. Yet only a few industrial solutions have been proposed, and even fewer that achieve near-broadcast quality of the synthetic replays. Except for their setup of multiple static cameras around the playfield, the best proprietary systems disclose close to no information about their inner workings. Leveraging multiple static cameras for such a task indeed presents a challenge rarely tackled in the literature, for a lack of public datasets: the reconstruction of a large-scale, mostly static environment, with small, fast-moving elements. Recently, the emergence of neural radiance fields has induced stunning progress in many novel view synthesis applications, leveraging deep learning principles to produce photorealistic results in the most challenging settings. In this work, we investigate the feasibility of basing a solution to the task on dynamic NeRFs, i.e., neural models purposed to reconstruct general dynamic content. We compose synthetic soccer environments and conduct multiple experiments using them, identifying key components that help reconstruct soccer scenes with dynamic NeRFs. We show that, although this approach cannot fully meet the quality requirements Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org. MMSports '23, October 29, 2023, Ottawa, ON, Canada © 2023 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM. ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-0269-3/23/10...$15.https://doi.org/10.1145/3606038.for the target application, it suggests promising avenues toward a cost-efficient, automatic solution. We also make our work dataset and code publicly available, with the goal to encourage further efforts from the research community on the task of novel view synthesis for dynamic soccer scenes. For code, data, and video results, please see https://soccernerfs.isach.be. CCS CONCEPTS + Computing methodologies — Computer vision representations. KEYWORDS 3D reconstruction, scene representation, dynamic, neural radiance fields, sports, soccer ACM Reference Format: Sacha Lewin, Maxime Vandegar, Thomas Hoyoux, Olivier Barnich, and Gilles Louppe. 2023. Dynamic NeRFs for Soccer Scenes. In Proceedings of the 6th International Workshop on Multimedia Content Analysis in Sports (MMSports °23), October 29, 2023, Ottawa, ON, Canada. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 9 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3606038.1
--- METHOD ---
ologies — Computer vision representations. KEYWORDS 3D reconstruction, scene representation, dynamic, neural radiance fields, sports, soccer ACM Reference Format: Sacha Lewin, Maxime Vandegar, Thomas Hoyoux, Olivier Barnich, and Gilles Louppe. 2023. Dynamic NeRFs for Soccer Scenes. In Proceedings of the 6th International Workshop on Multimedia Content Analysis in Sports (MMSports °23), October 29, 2023, Ottawa, ON, Canada. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 9 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3606038.1 INTRODUCTION Synthesizing novel views of a scene from a sparse sample of images is a long-standing problem in computer vision [7, 18, 31]. A notable field of application is sports broadcasting, in which action replays have a major role in story-telling and performance analysis. As one of the most popular sports, soccer receives a lot of broadcast coverage from top to low-tier competitions all over the world, with much care given to making the viewer experience ever more pleasant and engaging. Augmenting the broadcast production of soccer events with novel-view video synthesis of action replays is --- --MMSports °23, October 29, 2023, Ottawa, ON, Canada therefore very attractive to industrial actors, and a real opportunity for the computer vision research community. Despite the industry interest in novel view synthesis of soccer replays, only a few proprietary systems exist on the market. Indeed, such interest cannot outweigh the need for the highest image quality in broadcast productions; the industry, therefore, imposes very high standards in terms of the photorealism of the synthesized views. One noteworthy system [9] is able to deliver synthetic replays that are stunningly photorealistic, but for a few visual artifacts. Their setup is composed of dozens of very high-resolution static cameras, installed all around the soccer field high up above the bleachers. Their image data are processed by private, proprietary software running on very powerful hardware. These image data remain private as well, and equivalent public datasets are simply nonexistent. The only insight offered by this system to the research community is the validity of using a static multi-camera setup for the task. Even with no image data available, one can reason about the challenges that arise from using an array of distant static cameras as a basis for the reconstruction of a soccer environment. Outdoor sports like soccer are composed of a large static environment, the stadium, and small dynamic elements, the players and the ball. Traditional computer vision methods would most likely have to rely on very high-resolution images, as in [9], to reconstruct an underlying 3D model of the scene able to faithfully render the movements of the small dynamic elements. Having to deal with massive amounts of image data for reconstructing a single, short soccer action is however not a desirable property for a solution. Building on the modern deep learning-based paradigm to computer vision problems, neural radiance fields [24] (NeRFs) have recently become the state of the art for high-quality novel view synthesis, and have been widely improved and extended to produce excellent results in very challenging settings. A notable line of work is dynamic NeRFs, i.e. neural models purposed to reconstruct spatiotemporal content, as opposed to only spatial, static content. This, therefore, begs the question: Are dynamic NeRFs suitable for reconstructing soccer scenes? To find potential answers to this question, we propose this exploratory work, in which we make three important assumptions. First, we only consider camera setups similar to the one used by the aforementioned proprietary system [9], deeming it optimal for the task at hand. Specifically, we use an array of 20 to 30 static cameras, positioned all around the soccer stadium and pointing toward the soccer field. This assumption goes well with the working conditions usually recommended to achieve good performance with NeRFs. Moreover, most NeRFs assume input views to be calibrate: by third-party Structure from Motion (SfM) tools, which are known to bring robust results with such camera setups in mostly static environments, such as a soccer stadium. Second, we limit our study to synthetic soccer datasets, yet we believe its results also apply to real data. As already mentioned, soccer image datasets with the considered camera setups are virtually nonexistent for the public, to the best of our knowledge. We therefore composed synthetic datasets, using public computer graphics engines and models. Because we control the cameras in our 3D virtual environments, this assumption also allows us to leave camera calibration aspects out of the scope of our work. We are Sacha Lewin, Maxime Vandegar, Thomas Hoyoux, Olivier Barnich, and Gilles Louppe confident that our findings remain valid when working on real use cases, given the availability of robust SfM tools, and the reputation of very good photorealism of NeRFs with real image data. Third, we only consider general dynamic NeRFs, i.e., dynamic NeRFs with no domain knowledge, to identify early limitations of the neural-based reconstruction paradigm in the context of our task. Another important reason is that domain-specific priors are often difficult and expensive to produce. For instance, an accurate skeletal reconstruction of the players would be predictably very useful for soccer replay synthesis, but is a hard task in itself, especially with the considered camera setups. Our goal is to avoid resorting to such priors, which are likely to be complex and costly. This assumption also has the advantage to make our study potentially insightful for the use of dynamic NeRFs for other sports than soccer, given similar camera setups. We select recent state-of-the-art general dynamic NeRF models and compare them in three synthetic soccer environments of increasing complexity. Our aim is to progressively transition from ideal conditions for the considered models, to conditions that are similar to the optimal camera setup used in [9]. Our contributions could be summarized as follows: (1) We provide a study of the performance of general dynamic NeRFs on the task of soccer replay synthesis in increasingly complex environments. Models are studied as they were introduced in the literature, then augmented with general, non-domain specific components that we identify. We close the study with a higher-level discussion about limitations and future work. (2) As we wish to foster research efforts toward solving this challenging task, we publicly release our code, including the improving components and
