--- Page 1 ---
arXiv:2306.07954v2 [cs.CV] 17 Sep 2023

Rerender A Video: Zero-Shot Text-Guided Video-to-Video Translation

Shuai Yang Yifan Zhou

Ziwei Liu

Chen Change Loy ™

S-Lab, Nanyang Technological University

{shuai.yang, yifan.zhou, ziwei.liu, ccloy}@ntu.edu.sg

i lo
7

Figure 1. We present a novel video-to-video translation framework that can render a source input video into a temporal-coherent video

with the style specified by a target textual description.
Abstract

Large text-to-image diffusion models have exhibited
impressive proficiency in generating high-quality images.
However, when applying these models to video domain, en-
suring temporal consistency across video frames remains a
formidable challenge. This paper proposes a novel zero-
shot text-guided video-to-video translation framework to
adapt image models to videos. The framework includes two
parts: key frame translation and full video translation. The
first part uses an adapted diffusion model to generate key
frames, with hierarchical cross-frame constraints applied
to enforce coherence in shapes, textures and colors. The
second part propagates the key frames to other frames with
temporal-aware patch matching and frame blending. Our
framework achieves global style and local texture tempo-
ral consistency at a low cost (without re-training or opti-
mization). The adaptation is compatible with existing im-
age diffusion techniques, allowing our framework to take
advantage of them, such as customizing a specific subject
with LoRA, and introducing extra spatial guidance with
ControlNet. Extensive experimental results demonstrate
the effectiveness of our proposed framework over existing
methods in rendering high-quality and temporally-coherent
videos. Code is available at our project page: https:
//www.mmlab-ntu.com/project/rerender/

1. Introduction

Recent text-to-image diffusion models such as DALLE-
2 [30], Imagen [34], Stable Diffusion [32] demonstrate ex-
ceptional ability in generating diverse and high-quality im-
ages guided by natural language. Based on it, a multitude
of image editing methods have emerged, including model
fine-tuning for customized object generation [33], image-
to-image translation [23], image inpainting [1], and object
editing [12]. These applications allow users to synthesize
and edit images effortlessly, using natural language within
a unified diffusion framework, greatly improving creation
efficiency. As video content surges in popularity on social
media platforms, the demand for more streamlined video
creation tools has concurrently risen. Yet, a critical chal-
lenge remains: the direct application of existing image dif-
fusion models to videos leads to severe flickering issues.

Researchers have recently turned to text-guided video
diffusion models and proposed three solutions. The first so-
lution involves training a video model on large-scale video
data [14], which requires significant computing resources.
Additionally, the re-designed video model is incompatible
with existing off-the-shelf image models. The second so-
lution is to fine-tune image models on a single video [40],
which is less efficient for long videos. Overfitting to a sin-
gle video may also degrade the performance of the original


--- Page 2 ---
(a) input (b) Translation results w/o ControlNet —_(c) Translation results w/ ControlNet
Figure 2. Customized model and ControlNet generate high-quality
results with better consistency with both prompt and content. Our
method is designed to be compatible with these existing image
diffusion techniques, and thus can take advantage of them to strike

a good balance between the style (prompt) and the content.

models. The third solution involves zero-shot methods [20]
that require no training. During the diffusion sampling pro-
cess, cross-frame constraints are imposed on the latent fea-
tures for temporal consistency. The zero-shot strategy re-
quires fewer computing resources and is mostly compati-
ble with existing image models, showing promising poten-
tial. However, current cross-frame constraints are limited
to global styles and are unable to preserve low-level consis-
tency, e.g., the overall style may be consistent, but the local
structures and textures may still flicker.

Achieving successful application of image diffusion
models to the video domain is a challenging task. It re-
quires 1) Temporal consistency: cross-frame constraints for
low-level consistency; 2) Zero-shot: no training or fine-
tuning required; 3) Flexibility: compatible with off-the-
shelf image models for customized generation. As men-
tioned above, image models can be customized by fine-
tuning on specific objects to capture the target style more
precisely than general models. Figure 2 shows two exam-
ples. To take advantage of it, in this paper, we employ
zero-shot strategy for model compatibility and aim to fur-
ther solve the key issue of this strategy in maintaining low-
level temporal consistency.

To achieve this goal, we propose novel hierarchical
cross-frame constraints for pre-trained image models to pro-
duce coherent video frames. Our key idea is to use opti-
cal flow to apply dense cross-frame constraints, with the
previous rendered frame serving as a low-level reference
for the current frame and the first rendered frame acting
as an anchor to regulate the rendering process to prevent
deviations from the initial appearance. Hierarchical cross-
frame constraints are realized at different stages of diffu-
sion sampling. In addition to global style consistency, our
method enforces consistency in shapes, textures and colors
at early, middle and late stages, respectively. This innova-
tive and lightweight modification achieves both global and
local temporal consistency. Figure | presents our coher-
ent video translation results over off-the-shelf image models
customized for six unique styles.

Based on the insight, this paper introduces a novel zero-
shot framework for text-guided video-to-video translation,
consisting of two parts: key frame translation and full video
translation. In the first part, we adapt pre-trained image dif-
fusion models with hierarchical cross-frame constraints for
generating key frames. In the second part, we propagate the
rendered key frames to other frames using temporal-aware
patch matching and frame blending. The diffusion-based
generation is excellent at content creation, but its multi-step
sampling process is inefficient. The patch-based propaga-
tion, on the other hand, can efficiently infer pixel-level co-
herent frames but is not capable of creating new content. By
combining these two parts, our framework strikes a balance
between quality and efficiency. To summarize, our main
contributions are as follows:

« A novel zero-shot framework for text-guided video-to-
video translation, which achieves both global and local
temporal consistency, requires no training, and is com-
patible with pre-trained image diffusion models.

¢ Hierarchical cross-frame consistency constraints to en-
force temporal consistency in shapes, textures and col-
ors, which adapt image diffusion models to videos.

¢ Hybrid diffusion-based generation and patch-based
propagation to strike a balance between quality and ef-
ficiency.

2. Related Work
2.1. Text Driven Image Generation

Generating images with descriptive sentences is intuitive
and flexible. Early attempts explore GAN [42-44, 46] to
synthesize realistic images. With the powerful expressiv-
ity of Transformer [38], autoregressive models [6,9, 31] are
proposed to model image pixels as a sequence with autore-
gressive dependency between each pixel. DALL-E [31] and
Cog View [6] train an autoregressive transformer on image
and text tokens. Make-A-Scene [9] further considers seg-
mentation masks as condition.

Recent studies focus on diffusion models [15] for text-
to-image generation, where images are synthesized via a
gradual denoising process. DALLE-2 [30] and Imagen [34]
introduce pretrained large language models [28, 29] as
text encoder to better align the image with text, and cas-
cade diffusion models for high resolution image genera-
tion. GLIDE [26] introduces classifier-free guidance to im-
prove text conditioning. Instead of applying denoising in
the image space, Latent Diffusion Models [32] uses the low-
resolution latent space of VQ-GAN [7] to improve the effi-
ciency. We refer to [4] for a thorough survey.

In addition to diffusion models for general images, cus-
tomized models are studied. Textual Inversion [10] and
DreamBooth [33] learn special tokens to capture novel con-
cepts and generate related images given a small number
of example images. LoRA [17] accelerates the fine-tuning

--- Page 3 ---
large models by learning low-rank weight matrices added
to existing weights. ControlNet [45] fine-tunes a new con-
trol path to provide pixel-level conditions such as edge
maps and pose, enabling fine-grained image generation.
Our method does not alter the pre-trained model, thus is
orthogonal to these existing techniques. This empowers
our method to leverage DreamBooth and LoRA for bet-
ter customized video translation and to use ControlNet for
temporal-consistent structure guidance as in Fig. 2.

2.2. Video Editing with Diffusion Models

For text-to-video generation, Video Diffusion

Model [16] proposes to extend the 2D U-Net in im-
age model to a factorized space-time UNet. Imagen
Video [14] scales up the Video Diffusion Model with a
cascade of spatial and temporal video super-resolution
models, which is further extended to video editing by
Dreamix [25]. Make-A-Video [36] leverages video data
in an unsupervised manner to learn the movement to drive
the image model. Although promising, the above methods
need large-scale video data for training.
Tune-A-Video [40] instead inflates an image diffusion
model into a video model with cross-frame attention, and
fine-tunes it on a single video to generate videos with
related motion. Based on it, Edit-A-Video [35], Video-
P2P [22] and vid2vid-zero [39] utilize Null-Text Inver-
sion [24] for precise inversion to preserve the unedited re-
gion. However, these models need fine-tuning of the pre-
trained model or optimization over the input video, which
is less efficient.

Recent developments have seen the introduction of zero-
shot methods that, by design, operate without any train-
ing phase. Thus, these methods are naturally compatible
with pre-trained diffusion variants like InstructPix2Pix [2]
or ControlNet to accept more flexible conditions like depth
and edges. Based on the editing masks detected by
Prompt2Prompt [12] to indicate the channel and spatial re-
gion to preserve, FateZero [27] blends the attention features
before and after editing. Text2Video-Zero [20] translates
the latent to directly simulate motions and Pix2Video [3]
matches the latent of the current frame to that of the previ-
ous frame. All the above methods largely rely on cross-
frame attention and early-step latent fusion to improve
temporal consistency. However, as we will show later,
these strategies predominantly cater to high-level styles
and shapes, and being less effective in maintaining cross-
frame consistency at the level of texture and detail. In
contrast to these approaches, our method proposes a novel
pixel-aware cross-frame latent fusion, which non-trivially
achieves pixel-level temporal consistency.

Another zero-shot solution is to apply frame interpola-
tion to infer the videos based on one or more diffusion-
edited frames. The seminal work of image analogy [13] mi-
grates the style effect from an exemplar pair to other images

Key Frame Translation

, ’ Ly
I} Ik 2K

Full Video Translation

@ First frame; First key frame; Anchor frame @ Key frame @ Non-key frame
—> Cross-frame Attn; Pixel-aware Fusion —» Frame interpolation

—» Cross-frame Attn; Shape-aware Fusion; Pixel-aware Fusion; Color AdaIN

Figure 3. Illustration of the interaction between different frames
to impose temporal constraints in our framework.

with patch matching. FiSer et al. [8] extend image analogy
to facial video translation with the guidance of facial fea-
tures. Later, Jamrivska et al. [19] propose an improved Eb-
Synth for general video translation based on multiple ex-
emplar frames with a novel temporal blending approach.
Although these patch-based methods can preserve fine de-
tails, their temporal consistency largely relies on the coher-
ence across the exemplar frames. Thus, our adapted dif-
fusion model for generating coherent frames is well suited
for these methods, as we will show later in Fig. 11. In this
paper, we integrate the zero-shot EbSynth into our frame-
work to achieve better temporal consistency and accelerate
inference without any further training.

3. Preliminary: Diffusion Models

Stable Diffusion Stable Diffusion is a latent diffusion
model operating in the latent space of an autoencoder
D(E(-)), where € and are the encoder and decoder, respec-
tively. Specifically, for an image J with its latent feature
xo = E€(J), the diffusion forward process iteratively add
noises to the latent

q(x |t1-1) = N (21; Vorrr-1, (1 — ax)I), a)

where t = 1, ..., T is the time step, q(x1|x,_1) is the condi-
tional density of x; given g;—1, and a, is hyperparameters.
Alternatively, we can directly sample x; at any time step
from xo with,

g(1|@o) = N (a1; Vara, (1 — a)I), (2)

where @ = [[/_, ai.

Then in the diffusion backward process, a U-Net eg is
trained to predict the noise of the latent to iteratively re-
cover xo from x7. Given a large T’, xo will be completely
destroyed in the forward process so that «7 approximates
a standard Gaussian distribution. Therefore, €g correspond-
ingly learns to infer valid x9 from random Gaussian noises.
Once trained, we can sample x;_, based on x; with a deter-
ministic DDIM sampling [37]:

M1 = VG #0 +V1— a1-1€0(%1,t,ep), (3)

predicted xo direction pointing to 24_1

--- Page 4 ---
DDIM sampling « T pil fen
png Ro 250

wot teh rate tascaee
(Sear) (Seat (" scans
| Cross-Frame | | 414 | | Shape-Aware

Attention | | AdalN! | Latent Fusion

ly lay ly

“A beautiful girl in Ghibli style”,

(a) Diffusion-based key frame translation with hierarchical cross-frame consistency constraints

Shape-aware
> Latent Fusion

I,

Tho

H
Fidelity-Oriented
coding |

Pixel-aware
(” Latent Fusion

Frame Attention

is

Ti and M;

Ty

aggregate

Adaptive
( Latent Adjust

0
(b) Sampling pipeline

Figure 4. Framework of the proposed zero-shot text-guided video translation. (a) We adapt the pre-trained image diffusion model (Stable
Diffusion + ControlNet) with hierarchical cross-frame constraints to render coherent frames. The red dotted lines denote the sampling

process of the original image diffusion model. The black lines denote our adapte

constraints at different sampling steps.

where #;_,9 is the predicted xo at time step t,

Fro = (ae — V1 — ay €6 (22, t, Cp))/ Vor, (4)

and €9(a;,t, cp) is the predicted noise of 2; based on the
time step ¢ and the text prompt condition c,.

During inference, we can sample a valid xo from the
standard Guassian noise rp = 27,27 ~ N(0,1) with
DDIM sampling, and decode xp to the final generated im-
age I' = D(x0).

ControINet Although flexible, natural language has lim-
ited spatial control over the output. To improve spatial
controllability, [45] introduce a side path called ControlNet
to Stable Diffusion to accept extra conditions like edges,
depth and human pose. Let cy be the extra condition,
the noise prediction of U-Net with ControlNet becomes
€o(xt, t, Cp, cf). Compared to InstructPix2Pix, ControlNet
is orthogonal to customized Stable Diffusion models. To
build a general zero-shot V2V framework, we use Control-
Net to provide structure guidance from the input video to
improve temporal consistency.

4. Zero-Shot Text-Guided Video Translation

Given a video with N frames {J;}.\ 9, our goal is to ren-
der it into a new video {J/}) 9 in another artistic expression
specified by text prompts and/or off-the-shelf customized
Stable Diffusion models. Our framework consists of two
parts: Key Frame Translation (Sec. 4.1) and Full Video
Translation (Sec. 4.2). In the first part, we introduce four
hierarchical cross-frame constraints into pre-trained image
diffusion models, guiding the rendering of coherent key
frames using anchor and previous key frames, as as illus-
trated in Fig. 3. Then in the second part, non-key frames
are interpolated based on their neighboring two key frames.
Thus our framework can fully exploit the relationship be-
tween different frames to enhance temporal consistency of
the outputs.

process for video translation. (b) We apply different

Table 1. Notation summary.

Notation | Description

E,D

image encoder and decoder of Stable Diffusion

the proposed fidelity-oriented image encoder

the i-th key frame (Sec. 4.1); the i-th video frame (Sec. 4.2)
translation result of I; with the proposed method

translation result of J; without PA fusion (Fig. | 1(b))

result of warping J, and I/_, to J;, and its occlusion mask
result of propagating the translated key frame I’ to J;

latent feature of J; encoded by €

latent feature of J; at the diffusion backward denoising step t
estimated 4, of J; at the diffusion backward denoising step t
latent feature of I/ at the diffusion forward sampling step t
optical flow and occlusion mask from J; to I;

4.1. Key Frame Translation

Figure 4 illustrates the T-step sampling pipeline for the
key frame translation. Following SDEdit [23], the pipeline
begins with zp = Jar + (1 — ar)zr,2zr ~ N(0,D),
the noisy latent code of the input video frame rather than
the pure Gaussian noise. It enables users to determine how
much detail of the input frame is preserved in the output by
adjusting T,, i.e., smaller T retain more detail. Then, during
sampling each frame, we use the first frame as anchor frame
and its previous frame to constrain global style consistency
and local temporal consistency.

Specifically, cross-frame attention [40] is applied to all
sampling steps for global style consistency (Sec. 4.1.1). In
addition, in early steps, we fuse the latent feature with the
aligned latent feature of previous frame to achieve rough
shape alignments (Sec. 4.1.2). Then in mid steps, we use
the latent feature with the encoded warped anchor and pre-
vious outputs to realize fine texture alignments (Sec. 4.1.3).
Finally, in late steps, we adjust the latent feature distribu-
tion for color consistency (Sec. 4.1.4). For simplicity, we
will use {J;}.p to refer to the key frames in this section.
We summarize important notations in Table 1.

--- Page 5 ---
4.1.1 Style-aware cross-frame attention

Similar to other zero-shot video editing methods [3, 20],
we replace self-attention layers in the U-Net with cross-
frame attention layers to regularize the global style of I/
to match that of I{ and I/_,. In Stable Diffusion, each self-
attention layer receives the latent feature v; (for simplicity
we omit the time step t) of J;, and linearly projects v; into
query, key and value Q, K, V to produce the output by

Self Aun(Q, K,V) = Softmax( 2 )-V with

Q=W2y;, K =W*v;,,V =W a, (5)

where W2, W*, WY are pre-trained matrices for feature
projection. Cross-frame attention, by comparison, uses the
key K’ and value V’ from other frames (we use the first
and previous frames), i.e., CrossFrame Attn(Q, K',V') =

Softmax( 25) « V" with

Q=W8vy;, K' = W* (v1; vi-1], V= WY [v1; v1).
(6)
Intuitively, self-attention can be thought as patch match-
ing and voting within a single frame, while cross-frame at-
tention seeks similar patches and fuses the corresponding
patches from other frames, meaning the style of I/ will in-
herit that of J and I/_,.

4.1.2 Shape-aware cross-frame latent fusion

Cross-frame attention is limited to global style. To constrain
the cross-frame local shape and texture consistency, we use
optical flow to warp and fuse the latent features. Let wi and
M % denote the optical flow and occlusion mask from J; to
I;, respectively. Let xi be the latent feature for J/ at time
step t. We update the predicted %,_,9 in Eq. (3) by

Ho — Mj - #9 + (1— Mj) - wi (4@]_,).

w and M are downsampled to match the resolution of x (we
omit the downsampling operation for simplicity in this pa-
per). For the reference frame J;, we experimentally find that
the anchor frame (j = 0) provides better guidance than the
previous frame (j = i — 1). We observe that interpolating
elements in the latent space can lead to blurring and shape
distortion in the late steps. Therefore, we limit the fusion to
only early steps for rough shape guidance.

4.1.3 Pixel-aware cross-frame latent fusion

To constrain the low-level texture features in mid steps, in-
stead warping the latent feature, we can alternatively warp
previous frames and encode them back to the latent space
for fusion in an inpainting manner. However, the lossy au-
toencoder introduces distortions and color bias that easily
accumulate along the frame sequence. Figure 5(b) shows

(a) Input image

(b) D(EC)) x 10 () D(E'@) x 10 (@) D(E*()) x 10

heal

(Error map of (b) —(g) Error map of (c)__(h) Error map of (d)

Figure 5. Fidelity-oriented image encoding.

compute the low-error mask

Figure 6. Pipeline of the fidelity-oriented image encoding.

an example of the distorted result after encoding and de-
coding 10 times. [1] solved this problem by fine-tuning the
decoder’s weights to fit each image, which is impractical for
long videos. To efficiently solve this problem, we propose
a novel fidelity-oriented zero-shot image encoding method.

Fidelity-oriented image encoding Our key insight is the
observation that the amount of information lost each time
in the iterative auto-encoding process is consistent. There-
fore, we can predict the information loss for compensa-
tion. Specifically, for arbitrary image J, we encode and
decode it twice, obtaining 7§ = E(I),I, = D(a) and

= E(I;),Ipr = = D(ai" ’). We assume the loss from the
target lossless xp to x6 is linear to that from xG to 74”. Then
we define the encoding €’ with compensation as

E'(L) = 26 + Ae (xp — 25"), (8)

where we find the linear coefficient Ag = 1 works well.
We further add a mask Mg to prevent the possible artifacts
introduced by compensation (e.g., blue artifact near the eyes
in Fig. 5(c)). Me indicates where the error between J and
D(E'(1)) is under a pre-defined threshold. Then, our novel
fidelity-oriented image encoding €* takes the form of

E*(L) = 26 + Me - Ae (ap — 27"). (9)

The encoding pipeline is summarized in Fig. 6. As shown
in Fig. 5(d), our method preserves image information well
even after encoding and decoding 10 times.

Structure-guided inpainting As illustrated in Fig. 7, for
pixel-level coherence, we warp the anchor frame J/, and the

--- Page 6 ---
warp and overlay
(Eq. (10))

downsample

Xia DDIM sampling x T updated xi_,

Figure 7. Pipeline of the pixel-aware latent fusion.

previous frame J/_, to the i-th frame and overlay them on
a rough rendered frame J/ obtained without the pixel-aware
cross-frame latent fusion as

(10)
The resulting fused frame I! provides pixel reference for the
sampling of I/, i.e., we would like I/ to match I outside
the mask area M; = Mj Mj_, and to match the structure
guidance from ControlNet inside 1/;. We formulate it as
a structure-guided inpainting task and follow [1] to update
x;_, in Eq. (3) as

ai, — M,-ai_4+(1—M,)- #4, (11)

where #}_, is the sampled x;_, from ay = €*(I!) based
on Eq. (2).

4.1.4 Color-aware adaptive latent adjustment

Finally, we apply AdaIN [18] to #;_,, to match its channel-
wise mean and variance to #} ,9 in the late steps. It can
further keep the color style coherent throughout the whole
key frames.

4.2. Full Video Translation

For frames with similar content, existing frame interpo-
lation methods like Ebsynth [19] can generate plausible
results by propagating the rendered frames to their neigh-
bors efficiently. However, compared to diffusion models,
frame interpolation cannot create new content. To bal-
ance between quality and efficiency, we propose a hybrid
framework to render key frames and other frames with the
adapted diffusion model and Ebsynth, respectively.

Specifically, we sample the key frames uniformly for
every KK frame, i.e., Io, [K,I2x,... and render them to
Ib, Lig, [ox,--. by our adapted diffusion model. We then
render the remaining non-key frames. Taking I; (0 < i <
KK) for example, we adopt Ebsynth to interpolate / with its
neighboring stylized key frames Jj, and Jj. Ebsynth has
two steps of frame propagation and frame blending. In the
following, we will briefly introduce the main idea of these

two steps and discuss how we adapt Ebsynth to our frame-
work. For implementation details, please refer to [19].

4.2.1 Single key frame propagation

Frame propagation aims to warp the stylized key frame to
its neighboring non-key frames based on their dense corre-
spondences. We directly follow Ebsynth to adopt a guided
path-matching algorithm with color, positional, edge, and
temporal guidance for dense correspondence prediction and
frame warping. Our framework propagates each key frame
to its preceding A — 1 and succeeding K — 1 frames. We
denote the result of propagating I; to I; as I. For I;
(0 <i < K), we will obtain two results J/° and I/* from
its nearby key frames Jj and Ii,

4.2.2. Temporal-aware blending

Frame blending aims to blend I/° and J/* toa final result J}.
Ebsynth proposes a three-step blending scheme: 1) Com-
bining colors and gradients of I/° and I/* by selecting the
ones with lower errors during patch matching (Sec. 4.2.1)
for each location; 2) Using the combined color image as
a histogram reference for contrast-preserving blending [11]
over I/° and I/* to generate an initial blended image; 3)
Employing the combined gradient as a gradient reference
for screened Poisson blending [5] over the initial blended
image to obtain the final result. Differently, our framework
only adopts the first two blending steps and uses the initial
blended image as I/. We do not apply Poisson blending,
which we find sometimes causes artifacts in non-flat regions
and is relatively time-consuming.

5. Experimental Results
5.1. Implementation Details

The experiment is conducted on one NVIDIA Tesla
V100 GPU. We employ the fine-tuned and LoRA models
based on Stable Diffusion 1.5 from https: //civitai.
com/. We use Stable Diffusion originally uses Trax =
1000 steps. For the sampling pipeline in Fig. 4(b), by de-
fault, we set T; = 0.1Tnax, Tp) = 0.57 max, Tri =
0.8Timax and T, = 0.8Tmaxz and use 20 steps of DDIM
sampling. We tune T for each video. ControlNet [45]
is used to provide structure guidance in terms of edges,
with the control weight tuned for each video. We use
GMFlow [41] for optical flow estimation and compute the
occlusion masks by forward-backward consistency check.
For full video translation, by default, we sample key
frames for every K = 10 frames. The testing videos
are from https: //www.pexels.com/ and https:
//pixabay.com/, with their short side resized to 512.

In terms of running time for 512x512 videos, key frame
and non-key frame translations take about 14.23s and 1.49s

--- Page 7 ---
a)
Input

(b)
vid2vid-zero

(©)
FateZero

(a)
Pix2Video

€)
Text2Video-Zero

(6)

Our

il
Prompt: white ancient Greek sculpture, Venus de Milo, light pink and blue background

Prompt: a swan in Chinese ink wash painting, monochrome

Figure 8. Visual comparison with zero-shot video translation methods. The magenta box indicates the inconsistent region. For Text2 Video-
Zero and our method, we further enlarge the region to better visualize the pixel-level consistency.

per frame, respectively. Overall, a full video translation
takes about (14.23 + 1.49(K —1))/K = 1.49+12.74/Ks
per frame.

We will release our code upon publication of the paper.

5.2. Comparison with State-of-the-Art Methods

We compare with four recent zero-shot methods:
vid2vid-zero [39], FateZero [27], Pix2Video [3],
Text2Video-Zero [20] on key frame translation with
4k = 5. The official code of the first three methods does
not support ControlNet, and when loading customized
models, we find they fail to generate plausible results, e.g.,
vid2vid-zero will generate frames totally different from the
input. Therefore, only Text2Video-Zero and our method
use the customized model with ControlNet. Figure 8 and
Figure 9 present the visual results. FateZero successfully
reconstructs the input frame but fails to adjust it to match
the prompt. On the other hand, vid2vid-zero and Pix2Video
excessively modify the input frame, leading to significant
shape distortion and discontinuity across frames. While
each frame generated by Text2Video-Zero exhibits high
quality, they lack coherence in local textures as indicated
by the black boxes. Finally, our proposed method demon-
strates clear superiority in terms of output quality, content
and prompt matching and temporal consistency.

For quantitative evaluation, we follow FateZero and
Pix2Video to report Fram-Acc (CLIP-based frame-wise

Table 2. Quantitative comparison and user preference rates.

Metric | v2v-zero FateZero  Pix2Video T2V-Zero Ours
Fram-Acc 0.862 0.556 0.995 0.963 0.979
Tem-Con 0.975 0.979 0.953 0.983 0.983
Pixel-MSE 0.098 0.085 0.216 0.084 0.069
User-Balance 3.8% 5.9% 9.2% 15.4% 65.8%
User-Temporal 3.8% 9.6% 4.2% 10.8% 71.6%
User-Overall 2.9% 4.2% 4.2% 15.0% 73.7%

editing accuracy), Tmp-Con (CLIP-based cosine similarity
between consecutive frames), Pixel-MSE (averaged mean-
squared pixel error between aligned consecutive frames) in
Table 2. Our method achieves the best temporal consistency
and the second best frame editing accuracy. We further con-
duct a user study with 30 participants. The participants
are asked to select the best results among the five meth-
ods based on three criteria: 1) how well the result balance
between the prompt and the input frame, 2) the temporal
consistency of the result, and 3) the overall quality of the
video translation. Table 2 presents the average preference
rates across 8 testing videos, and our method achieves the
highest rates in all three metrics.

5.3. Ablation Study

Hierarchical cross-frame consistency constraints Fig-
ure 10 compares the results with and without different

--- Page 8 ---
(a) Input

(b) Text2Video-Zero

(c) Our

Prompt: a butterfly in cartoon style Prompt: a beautiful woman in CG style

Prompt: a clean simple white jade sculpture

(a) Input (b) Text2Video-Zero (c) Our

Figure 9. Visual comparison with Text2Video-Zero. Text2Video-
Zero and our method use the same customized model and Control-
Net for a fair comparison. Our method outperforms Text2Video-
Zero in terms of local texture temporal consistency. The red box
indicates the inconsistent region.

cross-frame consistency constraints. We demonstrate the
efficacy of our approach on a video containing simple trans-
lational motion in the first half and complex 3D rotation
transformations in the latter half. To better evaluate the
temporal consistency, we encourage readers to watch the
videos on the project webpage. The cross-frame attention
ensures consistency in global style, while the adaptive la-
tent adjustment in Sec. 4.1.4 maintains the same hair color
as the first frame, or the hair color will follow the input
frame to turn dark. Note that the adaptive latent adjust-
ment is optional to allow users to decide which color to
follow. The above two global constraints cannot capture
local movement. The shape-aware latent fusion (SA fusion)
in Sec. 4.1.2 addresses this by translating the latent features
to translate the neck ring, but cannot maintain pixel-level
consistency for complex motion. Only the proposed pixel-
aware latent fusion (PA fusion) can coherently render local
details such as hair styles and acne.

We provide additional examples in Figs. 11-12 to
demonstrate the effectiveness of PA fusion. While Con-
trolNet can guide the structure well, the inherent random-
ness introduced by noise addition and denoising makes it
difficult to maintain coherence in local textures, resulting
in missing elements and altered details. The proposed PA
fusion restores these details by utilizing the corresponding
pixel information from previous frames. Moreover, such
consistency between key frames can effectively reduce the
ghosting artifacts in interpolated non key frames.

Fidelity-oriented image encoding We present a detailed
analysis of our fidelity-oriented image encoding in Figs. 13-

Table 3. Effect of key frame sampling interval kr

Metric | K=1 K=5 K=10 K=20 K=50 K=100

Fram-Acc 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 0.990 0.890
Tem-Con 0.992 0.993 0.994 0.994 0.993 0.993
Pixel-MSE | 0.037 0.028 0.025 0.022 0.020 0.020

15, in addition to Fig. 5. Two Stable Diffusion’s officially
released autoencoders, the fine-tuned f8-ft-MSE VAE and
the original more lossy kl-f8 VAE, are used for testing our
method. The fine-tuned VAE introduces artifacts and the
original VAE results in great color bias as in Fig. 13(b). Our
proposed fidelity-oriented image encoding effectively alle-
viates these issues. For quantitative evaluation, we report
the MSE between the input image and the reconstructed re-
sult after multiple encoding and decoding in Fig. 14, us-
ing the first 1,000 images of the MS-COCO [21] valida-
tion set. The results are consistent with the visual observa-
tions: our proposed method significantly reduces error ac-
cumulation compared to raw encoding methods. Finally, we
validate our encoding method in the video translation pro-
cess in Fig. 15(b)(c), where we use only the previous frame
without the anchor frame in Eq. (10) to better visualize er-
ror accumulation. Our method mostly reduces the loss of
details and color bias caused by lossy encoding. Besides,
our pipeline includes an anchor frame and adaptive latent
adjustment to further regulate the translation, as shown in
Fig. 15(d), where no obvious errors are observed.

Frequency of key frames IX We report the quantitative
full video translation results of Fig. 10(a) under different
XK in Table 3. With large Ky, more frame interpolation
improves pixel-level temporal consistency, which however
harms the quality, leading to low Fram-Acc. A broad range
of K € [5, 20] is recommended for balance.

5.4. More Results

Flexible structure and color control The proposed
pipeline allows flexible control over content preservation
through the initialization of x7. Rather than setting x7 toa
Gaussian noise (Fig. 16(b)), we use a noisy latent version
of the input frame to better preserve details (Fig. 16(c)).
Users can adjust the value of T to balance content and
prompt. Moreover, if the input frame introduces unwanted
color bias (e.g., blue sky in Chinese ink painting), a color
correction option is provided: the input frame is adjusted
to match the color histogram of the frame generated by
ty = zr (Fig. 16(b)). With the adjusted frame as input
(bottom row of Fig. 16(a)), the rendered results (bottom row
of Figs. 16(c)-(f)) better match the color indicated by the
prompt.

Applications Figure 17 shows some applications of our
method. With prompts ‘a cute cat/fox/hamster/rabbit’, we

--- Page 9 ---
simple translation

g
FS
3
£
Ey
S
g
8

(a) input video (b) baseline (image model)(c) (b)+cross frame attn

(d) ()}+AdaIN

acne is preserved

neck ring
translates with
the neck

consistent hair
styles

consistent strand

of hair next to the
ear

(c) (d)+SA fusion (0 full

Figure 10. Effect of the proposed hierarchical cross-frame constraints. (a) Input frames #1, #55, #94. (b) Image diffusion model renders
each frame independently. (c) Cross frame attention keeps the overall style consistent. (d) AdaIN preserves the hair color. (e) Shape-aware
latent fusion keeps the overall movement of the objects coherent. (f) Pixel-aware latent fusion achieves pixel-level temporal consistency.

‘o PA fusion

Figure 11. Effect of the pixel-aware latent fusion on frame prop-
agation. The proposed pixel-aware latent fusion helps generate
consistent key frames. Without it, the pixel level inconsistency be-
tween key frames leads to ghosting artifacts on the non-key frames
during the frame blending.

can perform text-guided editing to translate a dog into other
kinds of pets in Fig. 17(a). By using customized modes
for generating cartoons or photos, we can achieve non-
photorealistic and photorealistic rendering in Fig. 17(b) and
Figs. 17(c)(d), respectively. In Fig. 18, we present our syn-
thesized dynamic virtual characters of novels and manga,
based on a real human video and a prompt to describe the
appearance. Additional results are shown in Fig. 19.

5.5. Limitations

Figures 20-22 illustrate typical failure cases of our
method. First, our method relies on optical flow and there-
fore, inaccurate optical flow can lead to artifacts. In Fig. 20,
our method can only preserve the embroidery if the cross-
frame correspondence is available. Otherwise, the proposed
PA fusion will have no effect. Second, our method assumes
the optical flow remains unchanged before and after trans-
lation, which may not hold true for significant appearance
changes as in Fig. 21(b), where the resulting movement may
be wrong. Although setting a smaller T can address this is-
sue, it may compromise the desired styles. Meanwhile, the

(a)input (b) result of frame #1 (c) w/o PA fusion (d) full

Figure 12. Effect of the pixel-aware latent fusion. Prompts (from
top to bottom): ‘Arcane style, a handsome man’, ‘Loving Vincent,
hiking, grass’ , “Disco Elysium, street view’. Local regions are en-
Jarged and shown in the top right.

mismatches of the optical flow mean the mismatches in the
translated key frames, which may lead to ghosting artifacts
(Fig. 21(d)) after temporal-aware blending. Also, we find
that small details and subtle motions like accessories and
eye movement cannot be well preserved during the trans-
lation. Lastly, we uniformly sample the key frames, which
may not optimal. Ideally, the key frames should contain

--- Page 10 ---
Ga

@ DEO) (6) D(E@) x 10 ODEO)
Figure 13. The fidelity-oriented image encoding on two VAEs.

Original kL-f8 VAE

(d) D(E*()) x 10

0.13,
--@- D(E(-)) ki-£8 VAE »
O11 7 _@- D(E'C)) ki-f8 VAE Tal
. -@- D(E*()) K-f8 VAE a
5 e
5 OO 1 me D(E()) f8-ft-MSE VAE ”
3 L
2 or —E- D(E'()) f8-ft-MSE VAE Pa
= AME D(E*()) f8-ft-MSE VAE a“
g “
g
§
=

Iterations of Encoding-Decoding

Figure 14. Quantitative evaluation of i image encoding schemes.

Original KL VAE

(a)frame #1 —_(b) frame #6 by D(E@)) _(c) frame #6 by D(E"@) (d) (c)+AdalN+anchor

Figure 15. Different constraints to prevent error accumulation.

“(© T= Tux

(a) input frame (b) xp = zp @) T= 09T pax (€) T= 08T ae

Figure 16. Effect of the initialization of x7. Prompt: a traditional
mountain in Chinese ink wash painting. The proposed framework
enables flexible content and color control by adjusting T and color
correction.

all unique objects; otherwise, the propagation cannot create
unseen content such as the hand in Fig. 22(b). One poten-
tial solution is user-interactive translation, where users can
manually assign new key frames based on the previous re-
sults.

10

(c) 2D-to-real (a) 3D-to-real
Figure 17. Applications of the proposed method.

Input

Input

Figure 18. Applications: text-guided virtual character generation.
Results are generated with a single image diffusion model.

6. Conclusion

This paper presents a zero-shot framework to adapt im-
age diffusion models for video translation. Our method uti-
lizes hierarchical cross-frame constraints to enforce tempo-
ral consistency in both global style and low-level textures,
leveraging the key optical flow. The compatibility with ex-
isting image diffusion techniques indicates that our idea
might be applied to other text-guided video editing tasks,
such as video super-resolution and inpainting. Addition-
ally, our proposed fidelity-oriented image encoding could
benefit existing diffusion-based methods. We believe that
our approach can facilitate the creation of high-quality and

--- Page 11 ---
Input
Prompt

a beautiful
‘woman +

cartoon

style

Chinese

a handsome man + painting of Van Gogh
Figure 19. Applications: video stylization. Thanks to the com-
patible design, our method can use off-the-shelf pre-trained image
models customized for different styles to accurately stylize videos.

(a) frame #1 (b) Results w/ pixel-aware fusion

Figure 20. Limitation: failure optical flow due to large motions.
Our method is not suitable for processing videos where it is diffi-

cult to estimate the optical flow.

©) nit, vith T= Kr nL (a) ghosting

SB

(b) results with T= 0.75T n,

(a) input frames

Figure 21. Limitation: trade-off between content and prompt.

key framet non-key frame new key frame2

propagate propagate

input frame

5
3
3
5

(a) (b) © @
Figure 22. Limitation: failed propagation w/o good key frames.

temporally-coherent videos and inspire further research in
this field.

Acknowledgments. This study is supported under the
RIE2020 Industry Alignment Fund Industry Collabora-
tion Projects (IAF-ICP) Funding Initiative, as well as
cash and in-kind contribution from the industry part-
ner(s). It is also supported by Singapore MOE AcRF Tier

11

2 (MOE-T2EP20221-0011, MOE-T2EP20221-0012) and
NTU NAP.

References

1] Omri Avrahami, Ohad Fried, and Dani Lischinski. Blended
latent diffusion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.02779, 2022. 1,
5,6
2] Tim Brooks, Aleksander Holynski, and Alexei A Efros. In-
structPix2Pix: Learning to follow image editing instructions.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.09800, 2022. 3
3] Duygu Ceylan, Chun-Hao Paul Huang, and Niloy J Mi-
tra. Pix2video: Video editing using image diffusion. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2303.12688, 2023. 3, 5,7
4] Florinel-Alin Croitoru, Vlad Hondru, Radu Tudor Ionescu,
and Mubarak Shah. Diffusion models in vision: A survey.
IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelli-
gence, 2023. 2
5] Soheil Darabi, Eli Shechtman, Connelly Barnes, Dan B
Goldman, and Pradeep Sen. Image melding: Combining in-
consistent images using patch-based synthesis. ACM Trans-
actions on Graphics, 31(4):82-1, 2012. 6
6] Ming Ding, Zhuoyi Yang, Wenyi Hong, Wendi Zheng,
Chang Zhou, Da Yin, Junyang Lin, Xu Zou, Zhou Shao,
Hongxia Yang, et al. Cogview: Mastering text-to-image gen-
eration via transformers. In Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, volume 34, pages 19822-19835, 2021.
2
[7] Patrick Esser, Robin Rombach, and Bjorn Ommer. Tam-
ing transformers for high-resolution image synthesis. In
Proc. IEEE Int’! Conf. Computer Vision and Pattern Recog-
nition, pages 12873-12883, 2021. 2
[8] Jakub Fier, Ondrej JamriSka, David Simons, Eli Shechtman,
Jingwan Lu, Paul Asente, Michal Lukaé, and Daniel Sykora.
Example-based synthesis of stylized facial animations. ACM
Transactions on Graphics (TOG), 36(4):1-11, 2017. 3
[9] Oran Gafni, Adam Polyak, Oron Ashual, Shelly Sheynin,
Devi Parikh, and Yaniv Taigman. Make-a-scene: Scene-
based text-to-image generation with human priors. In
Proc. European Conf. Computer Vision, pages 89-106.
Springer, 2022. 2
Rinon Gal, Yuval Alaluf, Yuval Atzmon, Or Patash-
nik, Amit H Bermano, Gal Chechik, and Daniel Cohen-
Or. An image is worth one word: Personalizing text-to-
image generation using textual inversion. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2208.01618, 2022. 2
Eric Heitz and Fabrice Neyret. High-performance by-
example noise using a histogram-preserving blending oper-
ator. Proceedings of the ACM on Computer Graphics and
Interactive Techniques, 1(2):1—25, 2018. 6
Amir Hertz, Ron Mokady, Jay Tenenbaum, Kfir Aberman,
Yael Pritch, and Daniel Cohen-Or. Prompt-to-prompt im-
age editing with cross attention control. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2208.01626, 2022. 1,3
Aaron Hertzmann, Charles E. Jacobs, Nuria Oliver, Brian
Curless, and David H. Salesin. Image analogies. In Proc.
Conf. Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques, pages
327-340, 2001. 3

10

11

12

13


--- Page 12 ---
14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

[27]

Jonathan Ho, William Chan, Chitwan Saharia, Jay Whang,
Ruiqi Gao, Alexey Gritsenko, Diederik P Kingma, Ben
Poole, Mohammad Norouzi, David J Fleet, et al. Imagen
video: High definition video generation with diffusion mod-
els. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.02303, 2022. 1,3

Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising dif-
fusion probabilistic models. In Advances in Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems, volume 33, pages 6840-6851,
2020. 2

Jonathan Ho, Tim Salimans, Alexey A Gritsenko, William
Chan, Mohammad Norouzi, and David J Fleet. Video diffu-
sion models. In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 2022. 3

Edward J Hu, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li,
Shean Wang, Lu Wang, Weizhu Chen, et al. Lora: Low-
rank adaptation of large language models. In Proc. Int’l
Conf. Learning Representations, 2021. 2

Xun Huang and Serge Belongie. Arbitrary style transfer in
real-time with adaptive instance normalization. In Proc. Int’l
Conf. Computer Vision, pages 1510-1519, 2017. 6

Ondfej JamriSka, Sarka Sochorova, Ondfej Texler, Michal
Lukaé, Jakub FiSer, Jingwan Lu, Eli Shechtman, and Daniel
Sykora. Stylizing video by example. ACM Transactions on
Graphics, 38(4):1-11, 2019. 3, 6

Levon Khachatryan, Andranik Movsisyan, Vahram Tade-
vosyan, Roberto Henschel, Zhangyang Wang, Shant
Navasardyan, and Humphrey Shi. Text2video-zero: Text-to-
image diffusion models are zero-shot video generators. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2303.13439, 2023. 2, 3,5,7

Tsung-Yi Lin, Michael Maire, Serge Belongie, James Hays,
Pietro Perona, Deva Ramanan, Piotr Dollar, and C Lawrence
Zitnick. Microsoft coco: Common objects in context. In
Proc. European Conf. Computer Vision, pages 740-755.
Springer, 2014. 8

Shaoteng Liu, Yuechen Zhang, Wenbo Li, Zhe Lin, and Jiaya
Jia. Video-p2p: Video editing with cross-attention control.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.04761, 2023. 3

Chenlin Meng, Yutong He, Yang Song, Jiaming Song, Jia-
jun Wu, Jun-Yan Zhu, and Stefano Ermon. Sdedit: Guided
image synthesis and editing with stochastic differential equa-
tions. In Proc. Int’l Conf. Learning Representations, 2021.
1,4

Ron Mokady, Amir Hertz, Kfir Aberman, Yael Pritch,
and Daniel Cohen-Or. Null-text inversion for editing real
images using guided diffusion models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2211.09794, 2022. 3

Eyal Molad, Eliahu Horwitz, Dani Valevski, Alex Rav
Acha, Yossi Matias, Yael Pritch, Yaniv Leviathan, and Yedid
Hoshen. Dreamix: Video diffusion models are general video
editors. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.01329, 2023. 3
Alexander Quinn Nichol, Prafulla Dhariwal, Aditya Ramesh,
Pranav Shyam, Pamela Mishkin, Bob Mcgrew, Ilya
Sutskever, and Mark Chen. Glide: Towards photorealis-
tic image generation and editing with text-guided diffusion
models. In Proc. IEEE Int’l Conf. Machine Learning, pages
16784-16804, 2022. 2
Chenyang Qi, Xiaodong Cun, Yong Zhang, Chenyang Lei,
Xintao Wang, Ying Shan, and Qifeng Chen. Fatezero: Fus-

12

(28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

ing attentions for zero-shot text-based video editing. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2303.09535, 2023. 3,7

Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya
Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry,
Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al. Learn-
ing transferable visual models from natural language super-
vision. In Proc. IEEE Int’! Conf. Machine Learning, pages
8748-8763. PMLR, 2021. 2

Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee,
Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou, Wei Li, and
Peter J Liu. Exploring the limits of transfer learning with
a unified text-to-text transformer. The Journal of Machine
Learning Research, 21(1):5485-5551, 2020. 2

Aditya Ramesh, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alex Nichol, Casey Chu,
and Mark Chen. Hierarchical text-conditional image gen-
eration with clip latents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.06125,
2022. 1,2

Aditya Ramesh, Mikhail Pavlov, Gabriel Goh, Scott Gray,
Chelsea Voss, Alec Radford, Mark Chen, and Ilya Sutskever.
Zero-shot text-to-image generation. In Proc. IEEE Int'l
Conf. Machine Learning, pages 8821-8831, 2021. 2

Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz,
Patrick Esser, and Bj6rn Ommer. High-resolution image
synthesis with latent diffusion models. In Proc. IEEE
Int’l Conf. Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages
10684-10695, 2022. 1, 2

Nataniel Ruiz, Yuanzhen Li, Varun Jampani, Yael Pritch,
Michael Rubinstein, and Kfir Aberman. Dreambooth: Fine
tuning text-to-image diffusion models for subject-driven
generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2208.12242, 2022. 1,2
Chitwan Saharia, William Chan, Saurabh Saxena, Lala
Li, Jay Whang, Emily L Denton, Kamyar Ghasemipour,
Raphael Gontijo Lopes, Burcu Karagol Ayan, Tim Salimans,
et al. Photorealistic text-to-image diffusion models with deep
language understanding. In Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, volume 35, pages 36479-36494, 2022.
1,2

Chaehun Shin, Heeseung Kim, Che Hyun Lee, Sang-gil Lee,
and Sungroh Yoon. Edit-a-video: Single video editing with
object-aware consistency. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.07945,
2023. 3

Uriel Singer, Adam Polyak, Thomas Hayes, Xi Yin, Jie An,
Songyang Zhang, Qiyuan Hu, Harry Yang, Oron Ashual,
Oran Gafni, et al. Make-a-video: Text-to-video generation
without text-video data. In Proc. Int’l Conf: Learning Rep-
resentations, 2023. 3

Jiaming Song, Chenlin Meng, and Stefano Ermon. Denois-
ing diffusion implicit models. In Proc. Int’! Conf. Learning
Representations, 2021. 3

Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszko-
reit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Lukasz Kaiser, and Illia
Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, volume 30, 2017. 2

Wen Wang, Kangyang Xie, Zide Liu, Hao Chen, Yue Cao,
Xinlong Wang, and Chunhua Shen. Zero-shot video editing
using off-the-shelf image diffusion models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.17599, 2023. 3,7

Jay Zhangjie Wu, Yixiao Ge, Xintao Wang, Weixian Lei,
Yuchao Gu, Wynne Hsu, Ying Shan, Xiaohu Qie, and


--- Page 13 ---
41

42

43

44

Mike Zheng Shou. Tune-a-video: One-shot tuning of image
diffusion models for text-to-video generation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2212.11565, 2022. 1, 3, 4

Haofei Xu, Jing Zhang, Jianfei Cai, Hamid Rezatofighi, and
Dacheng Tao. Gmflow: Learning optical flow via global
matching. In Proc. IEEE Int’l Conf. Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, pages 8121-8130, 2022. 6

Tao Xu, Pengchuan Zhang, Qiuyuan Huang, Han Zhang,
Zhe Gan, Xiaolei Huang, and Xiaodong He. Attngan: Fine-
grained text to image generation with attentional generative
adversarial networks. In Proc. IEEE Int’! Conf: Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 1316-1324, 2018. 2
Han Zhang, Jing Yu Koh, Jason Baldridge, Honglak Lee, and
Yinfei Yang. Cross-modal contrastive learning for text-to-
image generation. In Proc. IEEE Int’l Conf. Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, pages 833-842, 2021. 2

Han Zhang, Tao Xu, Hongsheng Li, Shaoting Zhang, Xiao-
gang Wang, Xiaolei Huang, and Dimitris N Metaxas. Stack-
GAN: Text to photo-realistic image synthesis with stacked
generative adversarial networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE
international conference on computer vision, pages 5907—
5915, 2017. 2

Lvmin Zhang and Maneesh Agrawala. Adding conditional
control to text-to-image diffusion models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2302.05543, 2023. 3, 4, 6

Minfeng Zhu, Pingbo Pan, Wei Chen, and Yi Yang. DM-
GAN: Dynamic memory generative adversarial networks for
text-to-image synthesis. In Proc. IEEE Int’l Conf. Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 5802-5810, 2019. 2

13

